A little offtopic, but some people might find it interesting. My company doesn't have a "Software Architect" job title.
 Instead the closest thing is "Staff+ Engineer", which does pretty much the same things. However there are some key
 differences.

 First, these aren't "Ivory tower" architects. They still write code (although in practice not much) and stay connected to
 implementation details, mostly via code and design reviews.

 Second, architecture is every dev's responsibility, at different levels. So Staff engineers might oversee the architecture of
 entire systems spanning a whole org, while senior engineers oversee a single team. A mid level dev might design the
 "architecture" of a small service integrated in a larger system.

 Staff+ engineers usually report to senior leaders and aren't part of a team. They might hold office hours and break
 disagreements within or between teams.

 I'm not one myself but in a conversation a Staff eng. told me this was the first job where no one tells him what to do.
 Instead he spends his time proactively looking to solve business problem. This might be top down (e.g. take a business
 problem and try to find how to solve it) or bottom up (e.g. take some new tech or tool and figure out how it can be used
 to achieve some business goals). Often problems can also be solved without tech at all (e.g. aligning stakeholders).

 Lastly at this level engineers are expected to be leaders as well. Mentoring, sponsoring, etc. is pretty much a requirement.
 They should be force multipliers, making other engineers around them better. They might also scale themselves by
 producing content, such as tutorials, talks, training, etc.

 reply

 DoingIsLearning 11 hours ago | parent | next [–]

      My company doesn't have a "Software Architect" job title. Instead the closest thing is "Staff+ Engineer" Not
      off-topic at all, this is aligned with what I see. In older or 'regulated industry' companies the role and career
      path of Architect still exists. But more and more I just see senior roles that are flavours of
      Principal/Staff/Fellow and they still have normal Engineering duties but then in early greenfield stages of
      projects act as Architects, just not as a full time role.

 reply

 jslakro 8 hours ago | root | parent | next [–]

Training sphere also reflects this trend and nowadays is less common to find content focused on "Software Architecture"
 roles. It seems more like a thing from the past. Agile, horizontal teams and even distributed systems are motivating that
 specific role to disapear reply

 danielmarkbruce 10 hours ago | parent | prev | next [–]

 Is there any modern (let's define it as "started in the past 10-15 years") product company that has this "architect" role? I
 was under the impression it's antiquated. reply

 lexx 18 hours ago | prev | next [–]

    • Always on a state of mind of redesigning and simplifying everything

    • Spending a lot of time trying to figure out the business better

    • Studying a lot of books, articles, codebases and discussions on software architecture

    • Inspire the team and younger devs to avoid complex tools and solutions and stick to the basics

    • Balancing everyday and urgent business needs while leading towards a more simple, boring and maintainable
      system.

    • Trying to persuade people to avoid technical debt at all costs